One of the most important pieces of your Dockerfile is
how Node is launched.
That cmd at the end.
Before we get into exactly what needs to
go there, and examples of different ways you can do it,
I want to talk about process management in containers.
Because you need some context on what Node is doing
and how this was different before we got the containers.
If you remember back, and if you've been in
with Node awhile before containers,
you might have used something on your servers like nodemon,
or forever, or pm2.
These are tools that do multiple things,
but one of the big jobs was to manage the node process,
make sure its running and restarted when it needs to
be, and stuff like that.
The good news is we don't need that stuff in containers anymore.
Docker is doing that for us.
So it simplifies our setup.
We need less tooling,
and Docker is going to be that middle layer that manages the process.
In case you're wondering, we are going to use nodemon later in this
course, but that's really just for local development.
We'll use that to watch files for changes so that it starts
the node process back up again in case there's some file changes
on your host just like when you're using development processes.
So that's not going to change. But,
on servers in your CI
and testing, any time you're going to be using this on a server,
you're probably not going to want that middle layer in there.
Because Docker does a great job of managing this process.
It'll start it, stop it,
it could even pause it.
There's restart options. It even has things like healthchecks
that will run inside the container to make sure it's healthy,
and restart it if not.
One of the other things these tools used to do was manage multithreaded
situations. On most servers,
you have multiple CPUs.
If you know the inner workings of Node,
you've realized, at some point like I did long ago when it wasn't
very fast, that it only runs singlethreaded.
That is both a good thing and a bad thing in Node.
Good because it makes code efficient
and it makes it really fast,
but bad on servers where we have multiple CPUs
or cores. You usually are going to have that on your servers.
At least two, right.
You're going to need something that spins up multiple copies of Node.
Well in Docker, we already have that
and we call that replicas,
or tasks, depending on what tool you're using.
You might be using Docker Engine.
You might be using Docker Compose or swarm.
You might be using Kubernetes.
All of these have a concept of multiple
containers running off the same image.
That essentially does what these old tools used to do.
Okay. So great. We remove another dependency.
We don't have to worry about setting up these tools
or making config files for them on servers.
But there's one little issue with Node in npm.
Out-of-the-box, they don't respond to termination signals,
and that's something that we need to fix.
Because we really want Node to listen for these proper
signals coming out of the operating system
and shut down properly.
So that's what we're going to talk about in the next lecture.